---
layout: post
title:  "Worked On"
date:   2015-10-27 09:48:39
categories: working-on progress
---

#A record of What I did on 102715#
**Mainly because I have _four_ jobs**


##At Internship
Slidedeck of research about other companies in our industry and outside of it handle what we're trying to do usability and front end wise.

*Interesting finds/refinds*
3 Click rule- remember reading about it. Basically it's gotten out of hand and people take it to literally that everything should only be three clicks away rather then thinking of the organization of the information.
[Information scent] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_foraging)- "humans rely on various cues in the information environment to get similar answers. Human users estimate how much useful information they are likely to get on a given path, and after seeking information compare the actual outcome with their predictions. When the information scent stops getting stronger (i.e., when users no longer expect to find useful additional information), the users move to a different information source."


##For Contract
Exporting a wordpress database so another company can use it to create an app. Limited knowledge and time for wordpress database export customization. So using plugin from wordpress to csv and using excell to drill down the columns. Had to ask for help - deadline constraint. +1 knowing people who know things. +1 asking for help

##Side Project One 
Parent teacher conference scheduler. Created the first draft of specs and a database table setup. Still missing some information need to include it before team reviews it. +1 involving others +1 asking for help

##Side Project Two
Availability overlap - on hold but using new language that i'm using at internship

##Side Project Three
Upcycled laundry hamper. Turning the pvc and mesh bags into something presentable in a bathroom guests use. Basically making a box for it to sit in. - No work done today 

#### Job count today
3
[Internship, retail, data processing ]